Add term: Shift Left (#529)
cncf/glossary: content/en/shift_left.md

---
title: Shift Left
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Concept
---

## What it is

> Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. Although originally used to refer to the process of testing early, Shift Left can now also be applied to other aspects of software development and DevOps, such as Security and Deployment. 

Reviewer: This is great and very easy to understand! It'd be great if we could explain why it's called "shift left." Not everyone may be familiar with the concept of moving code from left to right so it may not be intuitive. I assume it's because we are moving test and security further up (or left) in the process.

> Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. Although originally used to refer to the process of testing early, Shift Left can now also be applied to other aspects of software development and [DevOps](https://glossary.cncf.io/devops/), such as security and deployment. 

Reviewer: Love it! Very easy to understand. We should explain why it's called "shift left" though as not everyone is familiar with the concept of code moving from left to right

Author: Added a couple sentences based on the note....let me know if this helps to cover this topic correctly!

## Problem it addresses
Security issues, bugs, and software defects can be more difficult and expensive to fix if they are discovered late in the development cycle or after deployment, particuarly if the software has already been deployed into production. 

## How it helps
By adopting a shift left mindset when it comes to software development, teams can implement testing and security throughout the development lifecycle. By sharing responsibility for testing and security, the development team--from   software engineers to quality assurance to devops/operations--can all play a part in ensuring the stability and security of an application. 

> In addition, shifting left enables continuous improvement and follows more of an agile rather than a waterfall approach to development, as teams can make small iterative improvements and identify problems earlier on. Security and secure development practices can be adopted as early as the design and architecture phase, rather than as an afterthought. The time required for testing before a software release can also be much faster if testing has already been done throughout the development cycle. 

Reviewer: I tried to simplify two sentences in this paragraph. Let me know if you're ok with it. 

The afterthought comment feels a bit judgmental.  They may not have the ability to do it earlier. Maybe we should stop after "as soon as the design and architecture phase"

> In addition, shifting left enables continuous improvement and follows an [agile](https://glossary.cncf.io/agile_software_development/) rather than waterfall approach to development. Teams can make small iterative improvements and identify problems earlier on. This approach allows engineers to adopt security and secure development practices as early as the design and architecture phase rather than as an afterthought. Testing throughout the development cycle, decreases the time required for testing before a software release. 

Reviewer: I think I would remove the afterthought comment. It does sound a little judgemental. They may simply not have the ability to do it earlier.

Author: Done!

---
title: Shift Left
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Concept
---

## What it is

> Left in Shift Left refers to the left-to-right (development-to-development) workflow. Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. The actual stages in the software development lifecycle may be defined in different ways based on the team and the models used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Left in Shift Left refers to the left-to-right (development-to-development) workflow. Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. The actual stages in the software development lifecycle may be defined in different ways based on the team and the models used.
```
```suggestion
Left in Shift Left refers to earlier stages in a software development lifecycle. Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development lifecycle rather than towards the end. 
```

Reviewer: @iamNoah1, not sure everyone will be familiar with the left-to-right concept. Shift left does only make sense if you get that. That first sentence was actually my suggestion :) If you have a better idea, I'm open to hearing it but not sure "Left in Shift Left refers to earlier stages in a software development lifecycle" makes that clear. Once you know what left means, it makes total sense.

Author: I am good with either suggestion. The latest suggestion is more streamlined and straightforward, but to @CathPag's point this also makes assumptions about what folks may already know or not know. also on the prior suggestion one note is that the 'development-to-development' phrasing was a bit confusing to me. What are thoughts on combing phrasing as: `"Left in Shift Left refers to earlier stages of the left-to-right software development workflow."` and omitting that last sentence starting `"The actual stages..."`

Author: Getting a bit turned around by the comment threading as well, but the latest looks great to me.

> Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. The actual stages in the software development lifecycle may be defined in different ways based on the team and the models used. When considered as a left-to-right workflow, early stage activities such as design, planning, and initial development fall on the left side of the lifecycle, and the workflow continues moving right into stages such as testing, deployment, and operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Left in Shift Left refers to the left-to-right (development-to-development) workflow. Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. The actual stages in the software development lifecycle may be defined in different ways based on the team and the models used.
```

Reviewer: I think the explanation should go first. Otherwise, they'll have to re-read the first paragraph once they find out what left-to-right is. I moved it up which ended up looking like below. However, it's a LOT of explanation before getting to the actual definition. Maybe one sentence as suggested above is enough?

> Left in Shift Left refers to the left-to-right (development-to-development) workflow. Early-stage activities such as design, planning, and initial development fall on the left side of the lifecycle, whereas the workflow continues moving right into stages such as testing, deployment, and operations.

Shift Left is the practice of implementing tests, security, or other development practices early in the software development cycle rather than towards the end. The actual stages in the software development lifecycle may be defined in different ways based on the team and the models used.

> Although originally used to refer to the process of testing early, Shift Left can now also be applied to other aspects of software development and [DevOps](https://glossary.cncf.io/devops/), such as security and deployment. 

Reviewer: If the suggestion above is accepted, we need to delete this.

## Problem it addresses
Security issues, bugs, and software defects can be more difficult and expensive to fix if they are discovered late in the development cycle or after deployment, particularly if the software has already been deployed into production. 

## How it helps

> By adopting a shift left mindset for software development, teams can implement testing and security throughout the development lifecycle. And because responsibility for testing and security is shared across the development team — from software engineers to quality assurance to DevOps/operations — everyone plays a part in ensuring the stability and security of an application. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By adopting a Shift Left mindset for software development, teams can implement testing and security throughout the development lifecycle. And because responsibility for testing and security is shared across the development team — from software engineers to quality assurance to operations — everyone plays a part in ensuring the stability and security of an application. 
```
```suggestion
By adopting a shift left mindset for software development, teams can implement testing and security throughout the development lifecycle. And because responsibility for testing and security is shared across the development team — from software engineers to quality assurance to DevOps/operations — everyone plays a part in ensuring the stability and security of an application. 
```

> By adopting a shift left mindset for software development, teams can implement testing and security throughout the development lifecycle. And because responsibility for testing and security is shared across the development team — from software engineers to quality assurance to DevOps/operations — everyone plays a part in ensuring the stability and security of an application. 

Reviewer 2: Uppercased Shift Left for consistency and removed DevOps personification. 

```suggestion
By adopting a Shift Left mindset for software development, teams can implement testing and security throughout the development lifecycle. And because responsibility for testing and security is shared across the development team — from software engineers to quality assurance to operations — everyone plays a part in ensuring the stability and security of an application. 
```
